how everyone.
So this is a practice lab session.
So first of all,
I'm going to create a normal user.
So have you used use a red?
Come on.
I'm not give a password as well.
So I've just created that normally,
user,
I'm going to log into the same server using use a John.
So it is asking for the user name and the password.
I can see that I have locked into the box.
I have got some shell.
So what is my show?
I can check with this.
Come on,
you can see that I have got best.
So whenever you know,
I'm going to,
you know,
going to look into any of the box.
I will get some obsession,
if I would.
Simple.
Five years,
You will see that I'm getting one best.
That is best shell.
I've got it on here.
This is,
you know,
process ideas.
Well,
if anybody is going to kill that,
you know,
process immediately,
that section will be closed.
Right?
So if I am fighting this PWD command,
you can see that I have got this,
you know,
location where I have loved them.
So this is my home directly on in the home directory or subdirectory skater?
Not the same as you.
User name.
Now,
let me show you what all the files we have and I can see that by default when a user has
been catered a few you know,
start a file of confrontation file is skated on the user's home directory.
That is a dark best RC dot profile and dot best underscored logo.
Apart from that,
they are a system wide there.
These two fires,
that is a profile.
There is one more file that is Boesch RC.
Full files out there.
45 finds out there.
So when a user logged in,
you will see that I didn't get any message.
So let me first,
you know,
coming out from let me look into the root.
I wondered lobbying is it would here.
So I'm going to put something on this fire at the last.
I'm just putting echo.
I'm just putting this,
okay?
I just want to show you that when a user logging So what?
All the files has been executed,
so I've just poured this entry echo this coming back to here and again.
I'm going to take a session off the user,
John,
that is such user.
And John,
I can see that I have got this message.
This is what I have mentioned here in this final.
All right,
so But this We come to know that when a user logged in Oh,
it is a profile has been executed.
So if you have put something here like this one,
so that is a publicly available for all the users.
If you have any other either,
Like,
let me check it out.
If you have any other user on the box,
there is article either.
Also,
if I'm going to log into the box as article user,
I'm just using such article.
You will see that here also have got the same message.
So if you're going to put anything in your a t.
C profiling means that this is going to be executed for all the users.
No,
coming to the next fight.
That is,
I'm discussing about the system Dwight fighting.
So there is another file that is best R.
C.
So let me put something here as well.
I need to.
It will And I have put something in a tizzy.
Best R C as Well,
let me log in.
Let's see that.
Not with this.
You know,
output will come to know that when a user logs in your idiocy profile as well as your best
RC file is executed.
So this is a long thing we have understood.
Now,
I'll come into the next point.
I'm in this location,
and you will see here.
We do have,
you know,
a few confrontations files.
That is a dot bash profile.
So let me can't this file on?
Let's see what all the country we have now in this fine,
that is your profile bash profile that is,
father In diesel users,
all users like same user and John user has its own,
you know,
these confrontations files.
So if I'm going to put anything on this file so that would be applicable for my John,
you sit on it.
So here again.
See,
there it is started on initial.
It is checking for this file.
So this tells that it is checking for best R c in the same location,
like on.
If this file is there,
then it will execute.
So when a system stops very first filed,
it executed.
That is a dot bash underscore Profile on in that profile,
you will see that it is calling your dot best RC,
although your best profile is executed first,
but I need to start.
It's called for this.
So if you have mentioned something in this file,
so in all in what will happen it will is a good at first.
So let me put put something here.
I'm just putting the echo with the same filing,
so that will usually understand what file is executed right again.
I'm going to long into the box.
I can see that first this file has been executed than this file.
And then the users,
you know,
started files.
Not here.
We understood one thing that this file executed.
It looks for this file and executed.
So if I'm going to put something in this file that is my Boesch underscore R c.
This one like echo.
Okay.
No,
again,
if I'm going to log into the box fast,
it will execute this on this.
And then it will be going to execute this file on in this file.
If you'll see that initially executed this fire so fast,
it will execute this file.
This file and then it will less good in this file.
So let's see.
I can see that I have got this output before that this outboard,
Because this file has been executed in that file,
it cause you dot best r C five.
So,
with this output,
you got an idea.
Like what?
All the different files we have on when users log into the box which file executed first.
So,
friend,
that's all for this lecture in the next lecture will understand more about it.
Thanks for watching.